[Music]
first of all mark let me just say it's
an honor to have this time with you
really I've watched you from afar not
only being in the stands right but then
a big fan of Shark Tank appreciate
that's nice to have you here it is a
real honor and I'm excited about kind of
hearing your story and some of the
lessons that you've learned along the
way that I can not only apply in my own
business but then take those jewels
those treasures if you will and share
them with the larger community well I
just put the pressure on me hopefully I
have a feeling I so I'm curious to know
because from everything that I've read
you don't come from an entrepreneurial
family right not really my dad you know
had various jobs and then ended up
working for a long time doing upholstery
on car so if you had a rip in your car
seat you took it to region C products
and Pittsburgh and my dad sewed up your
car seat or you know back in the day if
you wanted to create a pimpmobile they
also did pin mobo so he was proud of
that he had you know some crazy
characters that he used to talk about
but yeah he had a cool dad then yeah my
dad's cool yeah but trust me he didn't
think his job was cool but yeah we were
we're a traditional middle-class
blue-collar family but you made some
really early big ships I mean most most
kids look forward to their senior year
right to you know party and enjoy and
you passed basically right I mean you
guys capacity yeah yeah I always did
everything back pass half words you know
I like to challenge myself and um I went
to Mount Lebanon High School in
Pittsburgh and I wanted to take business
classes my junior year
only they didn't offer any business
classes and so I decided I'd take some
college business classes but University
of Pittsburgh didn't offer any real
business classes either so I said you
know I'm going to challenge myself and
so
I took a couple night classes at the
University of Pittsburgh my junior year
in high school did well in them and
didn't wasn't really challenged all that
much at all and so I just dropped out of
high school and instead of going back
for my senior year I went that went to
the University of Pittsburgh and started
taking classes there and my buddies were
like where'd you go and it just I just
I've always tried to challenge myself
and so but I got to ask I mean really
where does that come from I mean where
what we what was going on what
conversations were you having in your
head or your parents or who that you
said as a junior I want to take business
classes I just think I've always been
wired that way you know when I was 10
years old I was taking baseball cards
and repackaging them and having a little
trade show for baseball cards in the
local park
I was selling garbage bags corded or you
know give basketball shoes when I was 12
I was buying and selling stamps when I
was 15 and 16 um I don't I don't know I
think I think as much as anything I've
always been very very competitive and I
wasn't all that good an athlete um I was
one of those kids that kind of blossom
late when I was you know a sophomore
junior in high school I was probably
five nine and wait about 15 pounds more
than I do today I had thick glasses
instead of contacts I remember the first
time I got contact actually some ways
just sent me a picture from Pittsburgh
from a sweet 16 party I was actually 17
and it was right the first time I'd worn
glasses out in public
I mean contacts out in public and the
response I got was night and day versus
anything I mean I I mean when I was
eleven no it was high school 14 15 I was
playing baseball got hit in the mouth um
and my parents I mean never into fashion
or looks or anything and so to save
money rather than getting white colored
caps yeah that's my teeth I'd silver
color caps so I had these big glasses I
was a big chunky kid and if I smiled you
know there was a light shine into my
face everybody
blinded so it was you know I guess you
know you just adapt and I was just
always really competitive and business
was something that I realized early on
that I was good at and that I enjoyed
and so I just gravitated towards it and
enjoyed it okay and then you decided you
were Indiana bound yeah Pitts didn't
have a business school and so I saw a
list of the top ten business schools and
the cheapest was Indiana University I
applied never visit the campus and got
in and you know showed up and that was
it and Kelly school business yeah and
actually it was I was undergrad and so I
you know showed up and and lived on Shea
one and foster quad and was you know is
it crapshoot that was one of the best
moves I've ever made and when I got
there again trying to challenge myself I
thought okay you know I've grown over
the summer and so instead of being 510
511 I'm six-two I'm growing into my body
now instead of being the chubby kid you
know I have contacts now I don't have
shiny silver caps on my teeth and so I
here's a new beginning I'm going to be
the floor president of shave one and and
I also decided that I was going to
challenge myself so yeah I created I
like to create these funky challenges
for myself um and so I decided that my
first two years of college I was going
to take all the hard classes and not
drink so that by the time I was a senior
in college I can party like a madman as
a freshman English okay and so I went to
register for senior level business
classes and realized that okay I could
take Grudge MBA classes they didn't know
that but I just stood in line and
register for these MBA classes got in
and did well um I mean my freshman year
my first year semester died you
I took graduate level statistics and I
thought okay if I can you'll do well in
this class I can do well now I got an A
in it and the the funny side story is my
professor I'm 18 years old my first
semester literally truly a freshman
still um and I took graduate level
statistics my prof was a guy named Wayne
Winston flash-forward many many many
years later I just bought the Dallas
Mavericks
I'm watching jeopardy there's Wayne
Winston just killing it on Jeopardy okay
that's fine and you know refresh my
memory III should get in touch with him
I wonder if there's some things that he
could do with the Maverick statistically
to help us and then I get an email on
the Mavs are playing the Pacers he
remembered me shockingly right from
class shockingly
seriously why would you 13 year old I
mean come on the 18 year old taken well
my god you know I'm just another kid
that's pretty unforgettable
all right I'm probably on campus right
and so he gets in touch with me and I'm
like all right let's start doing some
statistical analysis this isn't you know
a March or April of 2000 I'm like let's
start using stats to try to do player
evaluation and um whatever else we can
do to try to give the Mavs an advantage
a kind of like baseball it start to do
the whole Billy Beane you know Moneyball
type thing and he's like sure and so we
started a relationship that lasted 11 12
years all from my deciding to take
graduate level statistics my freshman
year and they said well it started off
amazing and then it kind of got kind of
funky because my spot by the middle my
sophomore year I'd had
like a year more than a year of my MBA
done but then all of a sudden the head
of the Kelley School of Business the MBA
school I think his name was Dean Porter
saw me on campus walked up to me starts
poking me in the chest I don't know how
you did it but you are no longer in this
MBA program you can't just walk in and
take classes because you want to so I
had to transfer all my mba credits back
to undergrad and use those to graduate
yeah it's pretty funny so it's just but
you know you learn the lesson that you
know it's not bad necessarily to take
intellectual chances you know there
what's the downside they put me back in
freshman English you know the upside is
I challenge myself I realize I can
compete with people a lot you know older
and smarter than me if I just put in the
effort and put in the time and so it was
a great experience a great I mean I
tutored I've ever tutoring some kids in
finance it Cathy and and it was it's not
like I'm a rocket scientist right it's
just literally you know business just
made sense to me it's just a language
that made sense and was easy
for me um and it's funny to look back
you're a humble guy but I got to tell
you I mean you need to know right I mean
you're a smart guy I mean I'm no less
stupid but there's a lot be a lot of
people a lot smarter than me I mean I'm
just a believer that everybody's got one
or two things that they're really really
really good at that they're wired for
and it the hard part is just finding it
and having the confidence to go after it
well having the confidence to go after
it is what you've done I think pretty
miraculously you know so you're done
with Indiana right and you hear all
about you know the weather in Dallas
right the job opportunities that most
importantly right the hot women ya know
22 years old you know yeah I came down
to Dallas because of fun Sun money and
women a bunch of my buddies from Indiana
we're living in the village and five of
Emerson well yeah they ended up that you
know like can I just crash on your floor
for a little bit right do I get a job
and it ended up being fun so I never
left for six months so I slept on the
floor for six months hide your clothes
in the corner corner yeah just nasty
nasty nasty stuff um you know and and
got a job working as a bartender at
night at a club called Ilan's and um
then got a job working for a company
called your business software that I
worked at for about nine months to I got
fired but you you learned something I
read there that is a motto that you
still refer to to this day right all
sales sales cures all yeah but I learned
a bunch of stuff you know it's funny how
much you can learn from a company that's
failing
we're company that's not doing well you
know I learned that sales cures all I
learned that RTFM read the freaking
manual you know if most people don't
spend the time particularly in a tech
world just to read you know you know the
beauty of tech is that it's changing
every minute of every day and there's
really two class of people in the tech
world the person or people who invented
it and then there's everybody else and
other than the people who created the
technology everybody else is in the same
boat you know if you just spend the time
to learn whatever it is well you're
you're competing with people we're
having to do the exact
same thing and you by reading the manual
by spending investing the time to to try
to get upfront on technology you can be
ahead of the curve because most people
won't put in the effort and then I also
learn you know as you were mentioning
that you know in any company that if the
head of the company isn't focused on
selling there's a good chance that
company is going to fail because there's
no company that's ever survived without
sales absolutely and they prove the
point by going out of business so a lot
of people think that audio net later
named broadcast comm was your really big
first win but you actually yeah the wins
a lot of we yeah yeah so talk about well
I got fired from your I got fired from
your business software about nine months
in and took a customer from there and
started a company called micro solutions
and it was me um just me basically and I
found an office that I actually I worked
out in my apartment in the village at
the beginning and what it was about was
you know to the point I just mentioned
you know technology comes fast and
furious and most people are afraid or
don't take the time to learn or want
help for whatever reason and this was
the early days of the PC industry and I
just put in the time in and whatever it
took I couldn't afford my own PC and so
I would tell a customer that you know
I'll learn the software I'll install it
and I'll support it for you you know let
me take your PC home so I can learn it
but I'll make sure it gets done and then
once you start learning a couple pieces
of software you get referrals and I just
grew the company kept on growing and
growing and we made a couple right
strategic moves um I always tried to ask
myself what's next what's coming next so
with micro solutions what worked out
really well for us was um back man it
was common just to take a floppy drive
and your floppy disk and just walk from
PC to PC and that's how you you know you
network basically and I thought you know
what that makes no sense
pcs are going to be connected up at some
point so that people could share data
and so I want to learn how to network
pcs well you know there was one company
basically a company called Novell that
was doing it and we became their third
for system integrator in the entire
country and I used that you know you
know connecting PC's together local area
networking to turn micro solutions
into by the time we sold it we were on a
thirty million dollar a year run right
and you know that then one of the thing
I'm most proud of with micro solutions
is that we were profitable every single
month of our existence never had a
losing month let alone quarter or year
until we sold it to CompuServe which was
then part of H&R Block and then I took
that money and I retired for a while
yeah yeah I bet you did I bet you did
but you were setting yourself up for
more fun right yeah I mean that was the
whole point I mean my whole attitude was
work hard play hard and I didn't take a
vacation for seven years during micro
solutions and then when I sold that
company I bought a lifetime pass in
American Airlines and you know I came to
Dallas to party like a madman and I work
my butt off to be in a position and you
know I got very good at it so let's talk
a little bit about passion because
you're really passionate about
basketball sports right and in fact the
whole broadcast.com
started because of your passion to want
to watch the Hoosiers game right on the
internet and then you took that and you
obviously yeah you know what I would
call so much passion as I would just
paint attention to the obvious you know
staying because I think when most people
just the way I'm wired when I see
something I always say is that the best
way to do it is that the only way to do
it I mean it's weird I mean I'll be in a
restaurant and I'll be thinking you know
my mind will work in the the processes
it's like I was at an event and I saw
John Legend there and we were listening
to another band and I like when you
listen to music what do you see you know
what do you hear he started telling me
about how we heard here's the
arrangements and how he would do things
differently and how he would compose
things differently and when I when I see
business when I see business processes
um no matter what it is I always say
okay is this the way I would do it is
this the best possible way to do it what
what would make it more efficient what
would make it more profitable is there
an opportunity are they doing it so
wrong that and this is the way it's
always been done that there's an
opportunity for a new business and then
the last part is am I willing to do to
work to make sure I'm right exactly um
and so with with Todd Wagner who's one
of them
my best friends we would sit down and
talk and BS about business all the time
and he came to me with okay some guys
trying to invent this thing using pagers
to get scores and listen to scores and
I'm like that's crazy this entered all
this internet stuff is happening you
know you know now when we listen to an
Indiana basketball game somebody who
puts a radio next to a speakerphone and
we get on the other side down here in
Dallas and listen to it on the
speakerphone you know there's got to be
a better way and so it was you know in
one hand because the fact I love to
listen India and a basketball fan
created the opportunity but it really
was what out the same way I approach
everything on whether it's today or then
what is this the best process is this
the best way is there a way to reinvent
this is there a way to disturb it you
know is there a way to completely
disrupt him and put him completely out
of business and at that point because
the internet was brand-new and I was
still a tech geek you know I put the
tech hat on it's like okay let's see
what we can do with the internet so I
bought myself a PC that I could dedicate
it put in the second better of my house
you know spent maybe four thousand
dollars altogether bought a faster
connection to the internet and just
started teaching myself and you know
that's how basically the whole streaming
business we did invent the streaming
software but we helped make it work and
we helped integrate it and we basically
been in the streaming industry right
which eighteen years later is kind of
crazy when you think about it it is it
is so I'm curious to know have you
always had in your mind the notion that
you've got to have an exit strategy that
you're going to build this okay no okay
it's always been like my first company
you know I'm proud of the fact we're
profitable every month
it's how can you be profitable to me a
company with an exit strategy is a
company I want to avoid because you
can't control your own destiny
there's no assurances that someone's
going to come along and especially now
you know here we are in 2013 the number
of IPOs you know where companies are
raising I think the number 60 million
dollars or less than the IPO just drop
out like 80 percent the only IPOs you
see or you know private equity companies
that took companies public and now are
trying to cash out you know and they pay
so much in fees to bankers that they
basically by the
way into the IPO market and so there's
not really that progression that you saw
in in the 90s which was build a company
make it profitable and then go public
and then the internet bubble came along
and it was built a company doesn't have
to be profitable right and then take it
public um and now it's built a company
or not even it's come up with an idea
hopefully with sweat equity or you know
angel Capital start a company get it
going and then try to raise more money
from venture capitalists or angel
investors whatever it may be then do a
Series A then do a series B and because
there's really no outlet for IPOs unless
you just get enormous like Facebook or
LinkedIn or whatever you basically have
to hope you get bought on or just be
profitable and the concept it's tough
enough to get a Series A or Series B you
know from investors that that's tough
right and let alone go out and get
acquired so if you're starting a company
today you're your goal better be to just
be up seemly cashflow positive so you
can put money in the bank and grow that
company otherwise your options start
declining you know if you don't have if
you can't get the cash flow positive
relatively quickly you're you know the
idea of controlling your own destiny
goes flying right out the window
and that's a huge problem that I think
just a mindset today it's just becoming
bastardized where it's raise money raise
money and if I can raise money that's an
end game in and of itself there's
nothing that the two things that I think
that make me mad more than anything
stream everyone's pissed me off more
than anything is one when people enter
contests there's so many like
entrepreneurial contests now you know
that oh how we came in third place my
business idea came in third place you
know and this or that or disrupt or
TechCrunch or whatever um or hey I'm
smart because I just raised money if
somebody's giving me money it must be a
good idea it must know you know because
you know every angel investor knows that
50 60 70 80 90 maybe 95 percent
depending on who the investor and how
they invest their ninety five percent
are going to go out of business there's
that's not a compliment that they gave
you money it just means you're part of
the crapshoot in it you know you don't
know which number you are you ready
are you black are you 18 or you 93 right
you're just a number and so you you
better realize that the best equity is
sweat equity and raising money is
actually a weakness not a strength
because now you're beholding to somebody
who just gave you that money you know if
I'm giving you everything that it sure
does if I'm giving you money it's not
because I like you hate it because I
have an expectation right okay good
enough so let's talk it let's do the
shift now to shark tank right big fan as
you well know a great show great show
and I think I learned today that it's
like the number one show watch my
families together she's amazing I told
us you yeah really shocking to me but I
mean now that you think about it we're
kind of like the the current generations
lemonade stand you know it's funny
because you have to fill out all kinds
of permits to open up a lemonade stand
when you're ten years old but you can
watch Shark Tank and learn a lot of the
same business principles and then some
and you know as a parent when you see
you know your nine-year-old talking
about valuations and and discussing
whether or not it's a good idea not only
does it you know encourage parents or
get them fired up you know that I hate
my son or daughters interested um but it
also you know it teaches and it also
gives confidence that look if some of
these broke folks that come on shark
tank and start their own business so can
i and it you know we've heard story
after story about the 11 the 12 the 15
the 16 year old who watches shark tank
and got inspired to start their own
business you know I love what I love
during the show sometimes is some of the
people that didn't get the deals still
do well but through the exposure right
it totally shifts and that's a
double-edged sword sometimes for us
because um when someone does well like
big chef shake or like they just had
somebody on um I'm spacing who was just
on that did really really well they did
a follow up and that's great you always
love to see some do well the challenge
sometimes is sometimes people come on
the show and just try to play us for the
PR and that's where you'll see you know
and I've you know I've been pretty good
about that and being able to tell on you
know like Coppa Divina
you can tell twice twice you know and
and you know I could tell what was going
on there and there's the plate topper
guy and you know there's been various
there's one coming up verbalized it you
know where you can just tell where they
were playing us and so it it's a
double-edged sword because that's still
a TV show at the end of the day and
they're trying to do good TV so tell me
what have been some of your aha I mean
as you now kind of see this breadth of
entrepreneurial interests right coming
on the show and you don't pick right the
judges don't pick we have no idea and
actually where I've gotten pitched deals
and then they've ended up on Shark Tank
I've had to use myself I've seen like
looking I catch me and so I can't be
here because it's not fair
and so and part of the application
process is have you done have you
pitched these deals to any of the Sharks
so it also means that they lied to get
on the show it's just a whole nother
measure for you right and I'm like I'm
done yeah okay so what have been some of
the things that you've noticed just in
you know what's kind of going on out
there you know I don't I don't know if
it really tells trends um but the
beautiful thing is that you know
entrepreneur ism is alive and well in
the United States um you know depending
what your political leanings are you
know some people might say oh you know
entrepreneurship is is dead and you know
we people aren't starting new businesses
and this tax rate or that tax rate is
going to impact now when someone has the
fire in their belly to go out and do
something and they're willing to take
that step to start a company they're
going to do it and I've never met an
entrepreneur that said well the tax
rates going to change exactly you know
now I've met entrepreneurs whose
businesses were for cash positive and
they were paying more taxes than they
want or you know and impacted how much
they can vest in their business that's a
different beast but at the end of the
day you know entrepreneurship is that
that's what America is all about the
American Dream is alive and well and
there's a never-ending flow of people
who have ideas have businesses have
started businesses that want to come on
Shark Tank you know they're out there
casting right now as we do this
interview and you know I think in Dallas
or 5,000 people who showed up you know I
I saw someone on Twitter posted a
picture from Philly
yesterday maybe day before where they
were camping out two days ahead that's
crazy
it's crazy when you think about it and
you but it's also exciting right now
you're not involved in any of that but I
do you're just showing up on the set
with a select and that kind of thing
when they walk in the door the only
thing we know about them is their first
name that's what you see is pick up the
note yeah are not allowed to use PCs
we're not allowed to use laptops we're
not allowed to use our phones to look
stuff up it's just what you know off the
top of your head and how much do you
know about business and do you know the
right questions to ask but then you know
we start grilling them and it's an
interesting dynamic because the first
step is to evaluate the company is it
something you're interested in you know
is it something you can make money at it
can be something you get a return on
then you've got to you know deal with
the dynamic of the other sharks you know
are they interested um do you want them
to know that you're interested or not do
I want to mess with them if it's a
company I'm not interested in can I get
them all fired up and interested you
know you know can I be I like to be the
quiet one that's you're quite like the
only time in my life so they have the
quiet one you know every other time
but um yeah but just because it messes
with them yeah oh I've seen you say I'm
out and then oh wait a minute oh yeah I
could do a mess of them the more fun I
have you know because we all get along
and but we're still very very
competitive and so if I can you know oh
great on them a little bit and no I'm a
little bit have some fun at the same
time you know we spend so much time
together there's all these little
dynamics and all these little games that
we play between each other just to make
it more interesting what if I offered
you 1.25 million dollars to sell the
whole company mark you're saying screw
the other sharks
yep I like what you guys are doing I
want you to come back to me with a
percentage I don't want you to even talk
to these guys you're asking him to take
that option with you right now and
ignore us you're not a very nice guy
thought about B being wonderful no no I
have that title think it's about making
a business decision right hi I'm Mark
Cuban I'm a bully look at me what's that
about mark
like I said guys you got a pay-to-play
just attention in this room I can feel
it it's offensive you got a shot here
right don't let these guys drag you down
are you really interested in it I like
the idea you really think cooking bacon
bedside is a good idea
I loved your passion I love your
knowledge I'm waiting for the bike yeah
there's a but coming
you got a 24-second shot clock $750,000
I've never seen greed like that that's
unbelievable grief you broke up with
your potential partner without even
looking at them you're a savage I'm just
a lean mean shark machine baby
I say yes to whatever your Conor is you
have to tell me that you will say yes
immediately and we have a deal
$100,000 wait a minute for 20% equity
done Donna done do you like that Barbara
I don't like it one bit
so damn smart I hope that's a compliment
to you Barbara I screwed you but it's a
compliment to you
this isn't the Rose Garden if the shark
tank and you know what sometimes you got
to take the bite and sometimes you're
the chump so what is it that you're
really looking for Marc when do you
choose to say I'm in I'm gonna make you
an offer I really don't have any one
thing um I try to to be objective about
each company but I guess I look for
something that's differentiated I look
for something that's timely I look for
some somebody who I think can run the
company that's committed to it I look
for someone who does their homework and
I look to see if I can add value to it
is it something that works for me
because if it's something you know the
frozen-food business but big chefs say
you know because they're not your thing
and what your your area of connection
you know I don't you know it's not too
much connections it's more okay it means
I'm gonna have to put in the time to
work at this and because otherwise it's
not fair to the entrepreneur and do I
have the time and that the time and you
hear me say it over and over again time
is my biggest constraint it's it's more
valuable to me the money so one thing
you can't get back and look at I'm not
here to tell you that times always been
my most valuable asset when I was
sleeping on the floor I had plenty of
time right in it and um it's just you
know as you get older I think more than
anything else and as you have a family
time becomes your most valuable asset
and that that as much as anything else
impacts the investments I make as you
kind of develop this portfolio if you
will of how you are investing are you
finding now that you're being even that
or that much more scrutinizing of yeah
just the time yeah exactly and means I
have to hire a lot of good people the
the shark tank stimulus program really
is the more companies any of us buy but
in my situation in particular I can't
even count how whatever hired by seven
people and growing just to deal with my
shark tank in your own business right to
help manage right so Mark Cuban you know
holding company
Mark Cuban companies to manage all these
things because I can't there's not
enough hours in the day for me to give
the support that they need so tell me as
you invest in both kind of men owned and
women-owned businesses are you noticing
any difference whatsoever in terms of
how you're working with them or what
you're noticing they find is important
or what they're passionate about you
notice it not really I'm gender agnostic
I mean and you know I don't care if
you're male female transgender I really
don't care I can't can you do the job
um now there are differences depending
on the home situation and again it's not
gender specific if it's a stay-at-home
dad which we've dealt with you know if
it's a stay-at-home mom it doesn't
matter you are going to be restricted in
your time I don't care how magnanimous
you say you're going to be and how
committed you are to the business if
your son or daughter has a cold or has a
fever or has head lice from you know
preschool you're stuck and that becomes
an issue and I've you know I've never
met a man or woman who stays at home
that says I can't deal with it because
they've been dealing with it they felt
that you know you're not going to start
a company unless you feel like you can
deal with it but one of the biggest
traps every entrepreneur falls into
including myself as we lie to ourselves
yeah I can do it yeah I can do it yeah I
can do it and then it comes down to oh
this is one exception yeah I can do it
you know or I'll just adjust and you've
got to be brutally honest with yourself
and say you know what's my competition
doing because it's not my competitors
are saying yeah mark son Jake he's sick
today yeah everybody timeout you know
something there's the thickness so we're
all going to take it either like he's
down go exactly same thing
with a window of opportunity right of
opportunity so you've got to be honest
with yourself and recognize that that
puts a cap on your time and I'm a big
believer you've got to work
like there's somebody trying to take it
all away from you because there is right
there's there's no company you know
there's no industry where and you know
that you hear the monopoly Congrats you
know in this day and age where it's less
cut it's less expensive to start
companies because of technology sure
right because you can outsource you can
do different things and you know it you
know country doesn't matter you can do
it all here in the United States um it's
so much easier faster cheaper to start a
company these days that someone is going
to bust your ass and if you're not
working hard enough and so that's
restriction it's it's not a gender
specific issue it's you know a reality
it's a parent specific issue and I don't
care who you are
you know you're not going to it and if
you're that parent who can just turn
your back yeah I'll leave them in a car
yeah right exactly then you got bigger
problems
another reason why you want to stay away
from that person perfectly okay so how
do you measure success
how does Mark Cuban measure success not
only in your own business right but
those that you're investing in two
different things right um if I'm
investing I just want money right okay
bottom line you're looking at right
payback right because I'm giving you
cash you know it's not like do you have
time to teach me how to play pool right
and and that's a good enough internal
formula on when you want turned on no
because that's what I'm pretty open um
you know I just want to know that that
there's that opportunity you know a lot
of the companies that I invest in I'll
I'll create quid pro quo or two
opportunities from my other companies so
you know I'll invest X amount but part
of the deal is if you're a software
company like we use a company called
nimble calm for our CRM and I invested
in them and part of the deal is my cute
companies get free software so that
gives me a balance you know to to create
an opportunity there um so no it's money
now it turns myself on I was happy when
I was poor you know I was going to stay
happy being poor but I you know had a
great a great life and for me the
definition success is waking up in the
more
with a smile on your face excited about
today it doesn't matter how old you are
if you're 12 24 44 84 if you wake up and
the big old smile pops on you know and
it doesn't matter if you have to flick
the cockroach away from the bed if
you're excited about the bet about the
day right you're successful you know
because every most people they set these
line item things that they define
themselves by by what they don't have or
by what other people have and to me
that's crazy
always living for something else step
right and you know they find themself in
this grind to try to attain things
because they think that's what it's
about rather than just saying okay what
what makes me happy you know when I saw
my first company and I retired it wasn't
like I was going to live some lavish
lifestyle you know I was still gonna
live in an apartment or living in a
house where you know I was gonna live
like a student basically and I was fine
with that
you know I didn't need a bigger fancier
car I didn't need the biggest house I
didn't need the biggest anything you
know I could my car I had the same car
whatever you know I was just having fun
and as long as I felt like I was going
to enjoy my day I'm good you know and
now they didn't say you know I still you
know as I was grinding through for seven
years without a vacation I had my goals
um but I was enjoying the process
otherwise you're not going to go seven
years without exactly exactly exactly so
on a shift and ask you a few personal
things right so how has being married
being a husband and now a father of
three right and your children all are
all under the age of ten okay six and
nine mm-hmm so how is that shifted Mark
Cuban the person and Mark Cuban business
oh it's changed my priorities
dramatically
um I mean now there's nothing more
important than my kids it's also changed
the flan through my Pro Shop flam
philanthropy because before I would've
said okay I can give away most of my
money no big deal now's like okay just
in case something's wrong I got it in
case I have to fun some disease or
whatever right it's all about my kids
first um but the flip side of that is I
waited you know I didn't get married too
how it was I 44 years old and so you
know I waited for the right person the
right time and you know she under Benny
yeah I was ready I certainly was what
was ready she had just turned 21 just
kidding no she wasn't 21 oh she is today
though she's going on to that yeah and
she's going to be for a long time you
are a smart man you were smart yeah you
don't look at their room yeah yeah um
yeah so I found the right person and um
she's we're a great complement to each
other and I've got the three best kids
in the world and you know that's what
matters yeah it does make a shift
doesn't it okay good enough and what
what is it that I mean how how is
networking in your life how important is
that and don't worry it is different for
me because um I can pick up a phone and
get anywhere you know and I actually try
to do 99.9% of my interactions via email
and I do it and I don't necessarily
recommend that for everybody but I do it
because I have so much going on that it
all goes into my email and it's like
okay when I talk about Sandra it then I
can just search exact you know if I'm if
I'm networking oh yeah we talked about
I'm going to forget all right because I
have too much going on it keeps a trail
for you yeah it for sure that the rise
my tickler file is my sub you know it's
it's it's a library and archive form you
know back in the day I was wherever
wherever there were customer
opportunities I was there um and
wherever I could I can connect to people
and tell them about micro solutions in
particular about audio net or broadcast
calm yes you know I was there and it
always came down if I was selling to
businesses I can make you more
competitive I can make you give you
advantages and I can make you more
profitable do you wanna hear more right
and let me prove it out and here's my
customer list and how powerful are three
great nuggets yeah I talked to them
right yeah you know or those audio net
you know the Internet is going to happen
you know do you want do you want to be
the one taking advantage of it to create
new opportunities or do you want your
competitors to do it do you want to talk
about it I know you don't know anything
about it because it's brand new right so
you can believe it or not believe it but
let's talk about it and so I always try
to come up with something that was so
compelling that it made sense for people
to talk and you know yeah there was a
lot of bulls along the way you know um
but at the same time at the core of the
business I always I really tried to
limit myself to things that were
compelling and differentiated because in
my businesses that I committed to if
they weren't compelling and
differentiated there's always somebody
else who could come up with the same
story and and you know undercut my
prices do a better job whatever the case
may be and you know one of my rules then
and now was if describing my company
versus yours or any other company if I
have to use adjectives that end in a
Oreste I've lost you I've lost right
because those are same one well you know
because if it's faster better cheaper
the bad astray those are all BS terms
because the company I'm competing with
they're not saying you're right
his is faster his is better his is
cheaper he's the best no let me tell you
why my is my company is better faster
cheaper or whatever why he's wrong
so you set yourself up to you know just
the nickel and diming now right actually
metal worse right right you know as
opposed to look here's why they can't do
it here's where we're differentiated
here's why it's compelling and we're
going to preempt them we're going to
disrupt them and here's why they can't
respond and go ahead and ask them ask
them how they're going to respond you
know because then they're going to tell
you what it's in our plans they're not
going to say it's there and so that's
always been a core for me so when we
started HDNet in 2001 when everybody was
looking at high-def sets and saying
those things are too expensive people
won't have them well you can't do
anything about it I know it's going to
happen those are going to follow the
same price performance curves of PCs and
so we were able to you know start an
industry you know when we had Magnolia
pictures and we weren't selling movies
the way we wanted to I said okay let's
change the window paradigm will put our
movies on VOD before they're in theaters
to take advantage of the unique assets
that we have we on Landmark Theaters we
own on mag know
pictures so we know we on HDNet movies
and so we have these differentiated
assets that are unique that you can't
touch and we can do things different and
so now that was seven years ago now the
industry is just catching up or trying
to and it's killed it for us and so
again you've got to be careful not to
lie to yourself you've really got to be
honest particular if you're starting a
business because so often I hear well I
can do this better what do you think the
competitor that you're trying to do
better is there I exactly think they're
just going to sit there and let you do
it you know they're going to do
everything they can just in Kevin's
words squash you like a bug
right um and so you've got to be honest
with yourself is it truly differentiated
and can you sustain that differentiation
and how are you going to stay there and
you know or the next excuse is if I only
had more money it's you know what 99.9
the percent business don't fail because
of more money they don't feel for lack
of money they fail for lack of brains
and you know you just haven't figured
out what it is that differentiates you
so mark what would most people be
surprised to learn about you you know
I'll tell you what most people I think
everybody thinks that if someone in my
position just go go go go go go go go go
I mean I wake up I'm in my shorts I work
from home I go sit on my computer that
my excitement a day since I really do
meetings or calls is you know playing
with my kids and sitting on my computer
all day I mean literally other than
going to the gym and playing basketball
or working out I mean I'm at home you
know I don't go out a lot I think people
would be surprised that I don't always
do my own shopping but I have no problem
you know going shopping doing whatever
um that you know our family we have a
nanny that's there you know eight hours
Monday through Friday to help and pick
up kids and stuff like that but you know
at night and weekends we're pretty much
on our own um we try to live as normally
as possible and so we're just the
Butler's you know no service you know
this that's just on me yeah you feel
really at peace
and in in alignment with the life you
have now me I don't think I look at it
that way I just try to enjoy every day I
mean someone's got to be the luckiest
guy in the world and as long as my kids
are healthy that's me there you go how
cool is that so on a business from a
business perspective what's one two
three things that you pieces of advice
if you could leave like the golden
nugget or Nuggets to entrepreneurs do
the work most people don't do the work I
got this idea then you talk to 10
friends oh they loved my idea oh I don't
know anybody do the work you know
they're very unless you're starting
another car business you know you're
gonna make cars or manufacture something
you know even then I mean sweat equity
goes so much further than anything else
but most people you know they're not
willing to do the work this great idea
let's go have a beer you know this great
idea let's go to movie you know great I
know you're gonna have to give something
up to start a successful company it just
doesn't come to you you've got to go get
it you've got to put in the time you've
got to put in the effort and you know
you've got to do the work and I just
think most people don't okay okay how do
you figure that out with someone you
fail how do we figure out what someone
else you don't always I mean I one of my
shark tank companies toy guru I wouldn't
do the work I thought they were they
felt like they were they weren't doing
the work um you know I've got another
company where they just do stupid stuff
you've got to do the work to do your
homework to understand what's smart and
what's you know you can't sell charge
less for shipping than it cost you
exactly you know I'm not going to just
give you money to make it up right right
you got to do the work to figure
everything out and you know even when
things are going well you can't like I
have another shirt to kill in it but
you've got I've got to keep on reminding
you've got to watch everything and pay
attention to the details because things
are going to slow down and how you
handle it when things slow down is going
to determine whether or not you're
successful long term and you got to do
the work and I just think a lot of
entrepreneurs they get excited
about the idea they get excited about
the dream they tell themselves because
they're passionate that's all that
matters
passion is the biggest lie to every
entrepreneur because we all of us are
passionate about something and just
because you get passionate about
something that you can start a business
in doesn't mean it's a good business
you know don't don't follow your dreams
follow your effort you know you'll find
that the harder you work at something
the better you are the better you are
the better chance you have a success and
it's not to say that you can't you know
work hard and get great at something
you're passionate about but so many
people I've never been passionate about
baseball when I was a kid I've never
been passionate about basketball you
know what's going to make me jump any
higher Esther you know and and there's
been lots of businesses where I thought
okay this is a great idea and then when
it came time time to do the work it
didn't match up with me and I wasn't
willing to do the work you know follow
your efforts where do you put in your
time where are you willing to work
because you'll be shocked that that's
probably your true passion is probably
just not as as as cool or as hip or as
dramatic or glamorous and again that
goes back to entrepreneurs lie to
themselves probably more than anybody so
do the work and see what happens
sometimes a double-edged sword because
when no one else is believing in you you
have to believe in yourself but there
comes a time oh yeah
look and the way to determine if you
believe in yourself is are you doing the
way yeah there you go
you know I believe in myself I know I
can do it you know and it's great the
little train that could write but that
little train get up the hill exactly
right it wasn't just about saying I know
I know I know I can it was doing the
work to get up that stupid hill you know
and you can you can tell yourself I know
I know I know I can't all day long
but if you're not willing to to you know
wake up sore because you were doing
walking up that hill every day you're
not doing the work powerful message
powerful message powerful powerful and I
think it's uh it's you know it's the
simple thing sometimes right we try to
make sometimes success so complicated
and what you've done and what I love
about what you've said is really the
coolest thing is that that's something I
don't have to rely on somebody else for
right comes from within yeah I mean you
always want to try to control your own
destiny
how can you control your own destiny and
if you can and I tell it to my companies
all the time
what's your core competency how can you
control your own destiny because the
minute you lose control of that you're
dependent on somebody else and look that
happens to every company at one point or
another but the less you can have it
happen the better off you're going to be
well I've learned a lot let me just tell
you what I've noticed about you is that
you really focus on kind of how do you
innovate and create a different customer
experience how do you look at something
and not just tweak it with the ers or
the EST make it a little bit better a
little bit faster but really stepping
back and saying this is a good idea what
isn't being done with this idea and how
can i impact you know customer
experience yeah I can't just be make it
better I mean that's a starting point to
think about it but it's got to be how
can I just screw this thing up so bad
they never knew what hit them yeah yeah
turn it inside out but make it more
spectacular as a result hi I'm Meg how
can I put these people out of business
yeah well let me just tell you
personally I mean I I do I have a core
value and that is my mother taught me
you know to whom much is given much is
required and what I want to say to you
is that I feel like you are whether
that's a value of yours or not you
really do live that I mean really the
cherishing moment for me here is really
learning how you know with your kind of
success it would be very easy to kind of
step back I mean forget forget for a
moment the business the reality of the
the you know you're increasing your own
portfolio by investing but you know it's
bigger than that because as you have
demonstrated here you're on the phone
your your mentoring them you're giving
them feedback isn't work to me I mean
you know I in a lot of respects that's
my philanthropy and that you know I
still get money to stuff and all that
but um you know if I can and that's
that's probably the reason I do Shark
Tank because so many people learn about
business and it's become one of the best
if not the best venue to teach kids you
know about business and to encourage
people and to give them you know to let
them know that if they do the work that
it's you know they can be successful and
in the American dream of it the
my dream is alive and well and if I can
be part of that message that's a good
thing
what's a good thing I mean as you give
money that's giving them the fish but
you're teaching a lot of people at
radish the drug thing it's been such an
honor to go to Mars and it's been this
time okay thanks
[Music]
you